---
title: METAR 
---
The **Automatic Terminal Information Service (ATIS)** provides regular information to aircraft arriving at and departing from an airport, operating continuously for 24 hours or a specified duration. The ATIS is updated on an hourly or 30-minute basis to ensure the information remains current.

ATIS broadcasts normally contain the following information:
- 	ATIS designator (A, B, C...), changes with ATIS updates
-   METAR
-   Active runways for departures and arrivals
-   NOTAM
-   Requests, such as "in the initial contact, report aircraft type and stand number"

**METAR**, which stands for Meteorological Terminal Air Report, is a standard report that provides meteorological information specific to an aerodrome. It can also be referred to simply as a routine aerodrome meteorological report. 

The METAR report follows a prescribed format and includes various elements, typically presented in a specific order as listed below:

- **Location(IACO for the Airport)**
The ICAO indicator of the reporting station. For example, OEJN.

- **Date and Time of the METAR report**
The day of the month and the time of the observation in hours and minutes in UTC/ Zulu

table

- **Surface winds**

Table

- **Visibility**

Table

- **Weather**
Weather is indicated by up to 3 groups comprising symbols and letters from the following:

Table

***Examples of compromising symbols***

Table

- **Clouds**
Cloud amount is reported by specific symbols followed by the height of the cloud in hundreds of feet. 

***These symbols are:***

- **SKC (Sky Clear)** = 0/8
- **FEW (Few)** = 1-2/8
- **SCT (Scattered)** = 3-4/8
- **BKN (Broken)** = 5-7/8
- **OVC (Overcasted)** = 8/8

***Examples of a full cloud report***

FEW015 = few clouds at 1500ft, SCT030 = Scattered cloud at 3000ft

***Other symbols***

Image

- **CAVOK**

When certain conditions occur simultaneously, the term CAVOK (cloud and visibility OK) is used to replace the Visibility, Cloud, and Weather groups in a METAR report.

**These conditions are as follows:**
 - Visibility is 10 kilometers or more.
 - There are no **Cumulonimbus (CB)** or **Towering Cumulus (TCU)** clouds present.
 - There are no clouds below **5000 feet** above ground level or the Minimum Sector Altitude (MSA), whichever is higher.
 - There is no significant weather affecting the aerodrome or its vicinity.

 When these conditions are met, the CAVOK indicator signifies that visibility, cloud cover, and weather conditions are favorable for flight operations.

 - **Temperature and Dewpoint**

The air temperature and dewpoint in a METAR report are provided in whole degrees **Celsius**. For instance, a notation such as 25/05 indicates that the air temperature is 25°C and the dewpoint is 5°C. In some cases, the letter **"M"** may precede the temperature or dewpoint value, indicating a negative or minus value. 

For example, M05 would represent a temperature or dewpoint of -5°C. This notation is used to indicate temperatures below freezing or in the negative range.

- **Altimeter Pressure**

Aircraft pressure altimeters are instruments that display the aircraft's elevation relative to a specific reference point. The choice of reference point depends on the barometric pressure set on the altimeter sub-scale. The standard unit of measurement for barometric pressure is the **hectopascal (hPa)**.

**There are three sub-scales on the altimeter:**
- **QNH:** This is the pressure set on the altimeter sub-scale to indicate the aircraft's height above sea level.

- **QFE:** This is the pressure set on the altimeter sub-scale to indicate the aircraft's height above a designated reference elevation.

- **Standard Pressure:** This is the standard pressure of 1013.2 hPa, which is used by aircraft operating above the transition level. It is used to determine pressure altitude (also known as Flight Level) and provides a common reference for vertical measurements.

Image

These altimeter sub-scales enable pilots to accurately determine their aircraft's altitude relative to the chosen reference point.

::::info For your information!
If the QNH is less than 1000, controllers need to mention the unit, **hectopascal (hPa)**.

- **Trend**

Trend forecasts are indicated by **BECMG** (Becoming) or **TEMPO** (temporary) which may be followed by a time group (hours and minutes UTC/Zulu) preceded by one of the letters indicated **FM** (from), **TL** (until), **AT** (at). For example, **BECMG FM1030 TL1130.**

**NOSIG** replaces the trend group when **no significant changes** are forecast to occur during the 2-hour forecast period.

***Examples of METARs***

Image